Developer deliver the appliaction the application and devops engg will take the application, contniereze in the docker image and publish to DCR.
How to make it live- Now K8s comes into picture-
Ops engineer will share the resource spac file like- docker image: , CPU, Memory aling with port numbers & replicas. We called this file as kubernetes configration file.

Now K8S comes into picture. 
Kubernetes- Kubernetes is a container cluster manager, it is used for schduling, monitoring, managening and scalling of a containerzed application a network cluster of computers.
Kubernetes contaoin the 4 parts of it.
1. Kubernetes master node- Kubernetes master node also called as control plane.Which is a central computer of the kubernetes cluster.The kubernetes master node take care of schduling 
monitoring and managing the worker nodes.It is connected centrelly to all the nodes to cluster.It has three parts.
1.1 API manager - We can schdule, monitor and manage containeze application on k8S cluster by talking to the help ot API manager.
The API manager acts as an face or front end to the k8S cluster.To perform any operation any on the k8S cluster, we need to talk to the API manager only.
API manager is built on HTTP protocol and expose itself as a httpendpoints/rest endpoint to public world.

There are several ways to talk to API manager-
1. K8s provided the cli tool called kubectl, through which we can talk to api manager
2. We can envoke the rest endpoints exposed by API manager. (For programmers not for admins)
3. There are api liberary provided by the kuberenetes using them we can intrect with the kubernetes api manager.(For programmers not for admins)

There are 2 major responcibilty of API manager-
1. The api manager will received the HTTP request from the user/k8s admin.Upon receiving the request ,api manager will validate the request received is valid and can be
understood for performing operation or not.If the request is invalid,return an error ti user by discarding the request.
2.The api manager upon reciving the request will verify, wether the user who has send the requsst posses the authrization in carrying or not on the cluster.
From the above we can understand the the API manager is the gateway of kubernetes cluster.which means any request that has be to enterd into k8s cluster should pass through the api manager only.

What happen if k8s master got crash?
Will use HA, creating multiple master to handle this sitiation.

1.2 Schdular 
upon receivig the request by the api manager, the api manager after validating and authriosing the request the api manager will handover the request to schduler asking to run an container
or pod on k8s cluster.The schduler is responcible for identifing the appropieate worker node on the k8s ckuster on whom the contaioner and pod can schduled for execution.The schduler
communicates with the kubelet proccess that is running on each worker node and checks wether there is enough amount of capicity is available on the node to run the container or pod on that node.
If not it goes to the next node of the cluster until it finds the appropirate node for on whom it schduled the pod/container for execution.

Who is responcible for running that container on that perticular worker node.
Once the appropriate node had been identified the node has been handover to the kubelet procces of the node, asking him to take care of bringing up the pod/container on the node by allocation,
appropriate resource requried.

1.3 Controller manager 
 The controler manager is a deamon proccess that is running on the kuberneets master or control plane which ensures which ensures the desired state of pods/containers are running on the k8s 
container.There are 5 type of containers are there in k8s.
1. Replica set = ensure the desired number of replica set are running on the cluster. 
2. Demon set = There are certain containersed application whch will be runnig on all the pods.
3. Deployment set = takes care of pod updates
4. Service = offring network services to all the pods that are running on the k8s cluster, ensures the communication accoress the pods and to the external network 
5. Job = We want to run an external program on each node of the kubernetes cluster to perform some one time activety, which can be taken care by job controller.

*ELK(Elastic search,logstash and kibana)- Logstash is a tool that will read the logs emotsby the containered application, then it will pass to elastic search, elastic serch will index the log files in the database.
Kibana dashboard will send a request to database and will get the logs on the dashboard, whcih is genrated by application.

2. kubernetes worker node- is a computer/machine attach to the k8s master or a control plane on which a pod is schduled for execution.
A worker node can be schduled to run one or more pods on it based on the capicity of the worker node.There are three major components are there to installed on each worker node.
 2.1 Container runtime - A worker node should be installed the container runtime to run the containerised appliaction on it.
Without container runtime a containerezd application cannot be executed.
 2.2 kubelet - Kubelet is a proccess that is run's on each worker node of the cluster.It gathers the information about pods and their statuses and communicate the information to the control plane of the cluster.
wIn addition we can think of an kubelet as en end proccess to whom control plane communites in schduling and running the pods on worker node.
we can think of kubelet as an end proccess to whom always the master reach to for any information about worker node.
 2.3 kubeproxy - Takes care of enables the traffic to the external network for a pod on the cluster.

3. Kubectl- Kubectl is a cli tool provided by the kubernetes team by itself that enables us to communite with kubemaster or control plane in administring, monitoring and managing the kubernetes cluster.
The through the help to kubectl we can communicate with api manager of the k8s cluster and pass instructions asking to perform some operation of the cluster.
The kubectl looks for kubeconfig.yml file under $HOME/.kube/ directory in which the controlplane information will be describe, by reading the info about the control plane the kubectl connect
and communicate to API manager to master.

4. Etcd-  is a key/value pair database, where all the object information that we created on kubernetes cluster will be stored as part of etcd database.  

What is POD- A pod is the smallest unit/entity in the k8s cluster where one or more container executed incide it.
e.g- There can be two containers who might have commen dependency of a  resources like networking, storage. 
Q: How can we ensure both of these container applications are using these commen resource that there are depenedent on?
These container might share commen life cycle management as well,how do we ensure that these container s co exist with each other and share commen dependencies?
A pod may contains atleast one container and at max any no of containers packedged and running inside it.




 














